Provide proper Triples explaination (#343)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

#### Reference Values Triple {#sec-comid-triple-refval}

A Reference Values Triple provides reference measurements or reference claims pertaining to a Target Environment.

> For a Reference Value triple, the subject identifies a Target Environment, the object contains reference measurements associated to one or more measured elements of the Environment, and the predicate asserts that these are expected (i.e. reference) measurements for the Target Environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a Reference Value triple, the subject identifies a Target Environment, the object contains reference measurements associated to one or more measured elements of the Environment, and the predicate asserts that these are expected (i.e., reference) measurements for the Target Environment.
```

The `reference-triple-record` has the following parameters:

* `ref-env`: Reference Environment Identity of the Target Environment

* `ref-claims`: One or more measurement claims for the Target Environment

> To process `reference-triple-record` both the `ref-env` and `ref-claims` criteria are compared with Evidence entries. First ref-env is used as a Search criterion to locate the Evidence environment that matches the reference environment. Subsequently, the ref-claims from this triple are used to match against the Evidence measurements for the matched environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To process `reference-triple-record` both the `ref-env` and `ref-claims` criteria are compared with Evidence entries. First `ref-env` is used as a Search criterion to locate the Evidence environment that matches the reference environment. Subsequently, the ref-claims from this triple are used to match against the Evidence measurements for the matched environment.
```

Reviewer 3: `ref-claims` in last sentence is also missing back quotes.
Note: It's easier to manage if each sentence starts a new line.

Author: Agree I will commit this suggestion

If the search criteria are satisfied, the matching entry is re-asserted, except with the Reference Value Provider's authority.
By re-asserting Evidence using the RVP's authority, the Verifier can avoid mixing Reference Values (reference state) with Evidence (actual state).
See {{-rats-endorsements}}.
Re-asserted Evidence using RVP authority is said to be "corroborated".

#### Endorsed Values Triple {#sec-comid-triple-endval}

> An Endorsed Values triple provides additional Endorsements that are	valid when a Target Environment has been verified against reference	measurements. For Endorsed Values Claims, the subject is either a Target or Attesting Environment, the object contains Endorsements for one or more measured elements of an Environment, and the predicate defines semantics for how the object relates to the subject.

Author: ```suggestion
An Endorsed Values triple provides additional Endorsements that are valid when a Target Environment has been verified against reference	measurements. For Endorsed Values Claims, the subject is either a Target or Attesting Environment, the object contains Endorsements for one or more measured elements of an Environment, and the predicate defines semantics for how the object relates to the subject.
```

> An Endorsed Values triple provides additional Endorsements that are valid when a Target Environment has been verified against reference	measurements. For Endorsed Values Claims, the subject is either a Target or Attesting Environment, the object contains Endorsements for one or more measured elements of an Environment, and the predicate defines semantics for how the object relates to the subject.

Reviewer 3: > An Endorsed Values triple provides additional Endorsements that are valid when a Target Environment has been verified against reference measurements.

```suggestion
An Endorsed Values triple provides additional Endorsements that are valid when a Target Environment has been verified against Reference Values or Evidence.
```

> An Endorsed Values triple provides additional Endorsements that are valid when a Target Environment has been verified against reference	measurements. For Endorsed Values Claims, the subject is either a Target or Attesting Environment, the object contains Endorsements for one or more measured elements of an Environment, and the predicate defines semantics for how the object relates to the subject.

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't the structure of a triple be described somewhere else in a section that applies to all triples not just Endorsed Value Triple? It shouldn't be repeated in every section having to do with triples. Clarification about what parts of the triple are subject and object might be needed however.

The `reference-triple-record` has the following parameters:

> * `ref-env`: Identifies the Target Environment
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `ref-env`: Identifies the Target Environment
```
Not sure why there's a break here.

> * `ref-env`: Reference Environment Identity of the Target Environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ref-env`: Identifies the Target Environment
```

* `ref-claims`: One or more measurement claims for the Target Environment

To process `reference-triple-record` both the `ref-env` and `ref-claims` criteria are compared with Evidence entries.

> First `ref-env` is used as a Search criterion to locate the Evidence environment that matches the reference environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First `ref-env` is used as a search criterion to locate the Evidence environment that matches the reference environment.
```

Reviewer: However, this seems phrased backwards, isn't it?  One uses the environment identifiers associated with the appraised evidence to locate the matching ref-triples.

Subsequently, the `ref-claims` from this triple are used to match against the Evidence measurements for the matched environment.
If the search criteria are satisfied, the matching entry is re-asserted, except with the Reference Value Provider's authority.
By re-asserting Evidence using the RVP's authority, the Verifier can avoid mixing Reference Values (reference state) with Evidence (actual state).
See {{-rats-endorsements}}.
Re-asserted Evidence using RVP authority is said to be "corroborated".

#### Endorsed Values Triple {#sec-comid-triple-endval}

> An Endorsed Values triple provides additional Endorsements that are valid when a Target Environment has been verified against Reference Values or Evidence.

Reviewer 2: I think we got rid of this wording before because there is no requirement of verifying anything.

> An Endorsed Values triple provides additional Endorsements that are valid when a Target Environment has been verified against Reference Values or Evidence.

Author: ```suggestion
An Endorsed Values triple provides additional Endorsements for an existing Target Environment.```

> For Endorsed Values Claims, the _subject_ is a Target Environment, the _object_ contains Endorsement Claims for the Environment, and the _predicate_ defines semantics for how the _object_ relates to the _subject_.

Reviewer: unclear why `_` is used here

> For Endorsed Values Claims, the _subject_ is a Target Environment, the _object_ contains Endorsement Claims for the Environment, and the _predicate_ defines semantics for how the _object_ relates to the _subject_.

Reviewer: unclear why `_` is used here (and not in the ref-value triple explainer)

#### Conditional Endorsement Triple {#sec-comid-triple-cond-endors}

> A Conditional Endorsement Triple declares one or more conditions that if matches, THEN every entry in the endorsements is added to the accepted state. The conditions are `stateful-environment-records` which match Target Environments from Evidence in certain reference state, for example a specific Target Environment with a specific revision of firmware with a reference measurement that has already matched.

Reviewer 3: > A Conditional Endorsement Triple declares one or more conditions that, once they match, cause every entry in the endorsements to be added to the accepted state.
> The conditions are `stateful-environment-records` which match Target Environments from Evidence in certain reference state.

```suggestion
A Conditional Endorsement Triple declares one or more conditions that, once they match, cause every entry in `endorsements` to be added to the accepted state.
The conditions are `stateful-environment-records` which match Target Environments from Evidence in certain reference state.
```

#### Conditional Endorsement Triple {#sec-comid-triple-cond-endors}

> A Conditional Endorsement Triple declares one or more conditions that, once matched, results in augmenting the Attester with the Endorsement Claims.

Author: ```suggestion
A Conditional Endorsement Triple declares one or more conditions that, once matched, results in augmenting the Attester's actual state with the Endorsement Claims.
```

> A Conditional Endorsement Triple declares one or more conditions that, once they match, cause every entry in the endorsements to be added to the accepted state.

Reviewer: have we already defined "accepted state" at this point?  If not, I suggest using a more intelligible term.

> A Conditional Endorsement Triple declares one or more conditions that, once they match, cause every entry in the endorsements to be added to the accepted state.

Author: ```suggestion
A Conditional Endorsement Triple declares one or more conditions that, once they match, cause every entry in the endorsements to be added to the actual state.
```

> A Conditional Endorsement Triple declares one or more conditions that, once they match, cause every entry in the endorsements to be added to the accepted state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Conditional Endorsement Triple declares one or more conditions that, once matched, results in augmenting the Attester with the Endorsement Claims.
```
I think the reader is equally confused by "actual" given the reader is confused by "accepted".

> The conditions are `stateful-environment-records` which match Target Environments from Evidence in certain reference state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The conditions are expressed via `stateful-environment-records`, which match Target Environments from Evidence in certain reference state.
```

#### Conditional Endorsement Series Triple {#sec-comid-triple-cond-series}

> A Conditional Endorsement Series triple uses a stateful environment, (i.e. `stateful-environment-record`), that identifies a Target Environment based on an `environment-map` plus the `measurement-map` measurements that have matching Evidence.	

Reviewer: This reference to the internals is not in tune with the "gentle introduction" spirit of this PR.

```suggestion
A Conditional Endorsement Series triple uses a "stateful environment" that identifies a Target Environment plus the measurements that have matching Evidence.	
```

Author: I think the orginal text is more clear as the triple is indeed very complex so more the text clarity the merrier it is!

Author: Also `` is the convention we have been following, so prefer this way as against to a new convention of "xyz"

Reviewer 3: If using the actual CDDL (which occurs earlier in the document?) can't be used here, the reader is equally confused by "stateful environment" as they would be `stateful-environment`. The current text assumes the reader is familiar with what has been discussed in previous sections. 

The goal of #310 is to provide one or two sentences of elevator text that describes the triple subject, object, and predicate without using those terms.

Author: Ned to address this in PR #343

> The series object is an array of `conditional-series-record` that has both Reference and Endorsed Values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The series object is an array of records contaning both Reference and Endorsed Values.
```

> Each conditional-series-record record is evaluated in the order it appears in the series array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each record is evaluated in the order it appears in the series array.
```

Author: As mentioned it is much safer to be precise as to which record we are referring  here!

> The Endorsed Values are accepted if the series condition in a `conditional-series-record` matches the ACS.

Reviewer: This one too seems too deep too soon: reference to internals, mention of ACS.

Author: We can change ACS to attester's actual state

> The Endorsed Values are accepted if the series condition in a `conditional-series-record` matches the ACS.

Author: Resolved using PR #326

> The first `conditional-series-record` that successfully matches an ACS Entry terminates the matching and the corresponding Endorsed Values are accepted.

Author: ```suggestion
The first `conditional-series-record` that successfully matches an attester's actual state Entry terminates the matching and the corresponding Endorsed Values are accepted.
```

> If none of the series conditions match an ACS Entry, the triple is not matched, and no Endorsed values are accepted.	

Reviewer: ditto

> If none of the series conditions match an ACS Entry, the triple is not matched, and no Endorsed values are accepted.	

Author: ```suggestion
If none of the series conditions match the attester's actual state, the triple is not matched, and no Endorsed values are accepted.	
```

#### Conditional Endorsement Series Triple {#sec-comid-triple-cond-series}

> A Conditional Endorsement Series triple uses a stateful environment, (i.e. stateful-environment-record), that identifies a Target Environment based on an environment-map plus the measurement-map measurements that have matching Evidence.	

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Conditional Endorsement Series triple uses a stateful environment, (i.e. `stateful-environment-record`), that identifies a Target Environment based on an `environment-map` plus the `measurement-map` measurements that have matching Evidence.	
```

> The series object is an array of conditional-series-record that has both Reference and Endorsed Values. Each conditional-series-record record is evaluated in the order it appears in the series array. The Endorsed Values are accepted if the series condition in a conditional-series-record matches the ACS.  The first conditional-series-record that successfully matches an ACS Entry terminates the matching and the corresponding Endorsed Values are accepted. If none of the series conditions match an ACS Entry, the triple is not matched, and no Endorsed values are accepted.	

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The series object is an array of `conditional-series-record` that has both Reference and Endorsed Values.
Each `conditional-series-record` record is evaluated in the order it appears in the series array.
The Endorsed Values are accepted if the series condition in a `conditional-series-record` matches the ACS.
The first `conditional-series-record` that successfully matches an ACS Entry terminates the matching and the corresponding Endorsed Values are accepted.
If none of the series conditions match an ACS Entry, the triple is not matched, and no Endorsed values are accepted.	
```

We still have the problem of needing to rule out negative matches based on lack of information. Please leave a link to https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/321

Author: Done, I want to progress this PR first so that we  can discuss the Issue in #321 
@deeglaze  please check
